docs/why-DIY-Oceanography-BZH.rst, before:

Why DIY Oceanography BZH?
=========================

Motivation and Context
----------------------

Projects including developments of open DIY monitoring systems of the ocean have been multiplying over the last couple of years and worldwide [BUT2021]_ [MAR2021]_.
Our objective is too centralize knowledge and material that may foster the development these projects.

Our effort has been so far conducted from Brest (France) with members principally from the academic and public societies.
The project relies on voluntary contributions.
Do not hesite to provide feedback about our approach (see related :doc:`guide <contributor_guide>`) !

Scope
-----

The ongoing effort of our working group focuses on sensors_, the movitation being that they consitute the cornerstone for all instruments.
We are therefore intentionnaly not adressing at the moment data logging, physical containering and mechanical design of the hosting platform.

Taking one variable of interest at a time, we wish first to:

#. gather information related to sensing physics that is ideally quantitative and referenced.
#. assemble a list of either commercially available sensors or open projects.

The purpose is to empower people with the necessary information to select the most adequate sensor for their DIY instrumental projects.

References
----------

.. [MAR2021] Marcelli, M., Piermattei, V., Gerin, R., Brunetti, F., Pietrosemoli, E., Addo, S., Boudaya, L., Coleman, R., Nubi, O.A., Jojannes, R., Sarker, S., Sohou, Z., Zennaro, M., Whiltshire, K., Crise, A., 2021. Toward the widespread application of low-cost technologies in coastal ocean observing (Internet of Things for the Ocean). Medit. Mar. Sci. https://doi.org/10.12681/mms.25060

.. [BUT2021] Butler, J., Pagniello, C., 2021. Emerging, Low-Cost Ocean Observing Technologies to Democratize Access to the Ocean. Oceanog 94–95. https://doi.org/10.5670/oceanog.2021.supplement.02-35

.. _sensors: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sensor

Commit message:

add variables (covered and wish list)

docs/why-DIY-Oceanography-BZH.rst, after:

Why DIY Oceanography BZH?
=========================

Motivation and Context
----------------------

Projects including developments of open DIY monitoring systems of the ocean have been multiplying over the last couple of years and worldwide [BUT2021]_ [MAR2021]_.
Our objective is too centralize knowledge and material that may foster the development these projects.

Our effort has been so far conducted from Brest (France) with members principally from the academic and public societies.
The project relies on voluntary contributions.
Do not hesite to provide feedback about our approach (see related :doc:`guide <contributor_guide>`) !

Scope
-----

The ongoing effort of our working group focuses on sensors_, the movitation being that they consitute the cornerstone for all instruments.
We are therefore intentionnaly not adressing at the moment data logging, physical containering and mechanical design of the hosting platform.

Taking one variable of interest at a time, we wish first to:

#. gather information related to sensing physics that is ideally quantitative and referenced.
#. assemble a list of either commercially available sensors or open projects.

The purpose is to empower people with the necessary information to select the most adequate sensor for their DIY instrumental projects.

The variables covered so far are: :doc:`temperature <temperature/temperature>`, :doc:`conductivity/salinity <conductivity/conductivity>`,  :doc:`fluorescence <fluorescence/fluorescence>`, :doc:`turbidity <turbidity/turbidity>`, :doc:`ocean currents <currents/currents>`.

The list of variables we wish to cover eventually is : oxygen, pH, passive accoustics, sea level, surface positionning, underwater positionning. Feel free to suggest any variable you wish to see in this list by `opening a new issue <https://github.com/DIYOceanography/DIYOceanography_BZH/issues/new/choose>`_ on our GitHub repository.

References
----------

.. [MAR2021] Marcelli, M., Piermattei, V., Gerin, R., Brunetti, F., Pietrosemoli, E., Addo, S., Boudaya, L., Coleman, R., Nubi, O.A., Jojannes, R., Sarker, S., Sohou, Z., Zennaro, M., Whiltshire, K., Crise, A., 2021. Toward the widespread application of low-cost technologies in coastal ocean observing (Internet of Things for the Ocean). Medit. Mar. Sci. https://doi.org/10.12681/mms.25060

.. [BUT2021] Butler, J., Pagniello, C., 2021. Emerging, Low-Cost Ocean Observing Technologies to Democratize Access to the Ocean. Oceanog 94–95. https://doi.org/10.5670/oceanog.2021.supplement.02-35

.. _sensors: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sensor
